Guido was a dinosaur living in Patagonia. He was different to his other friends, because he was an hadrosaur
Guido had fat legs, short nails and a kind of duck mouth. His creak sounds like a trumpet
But he was a good friend for everyone and at the bottom, a naturalist
He was proud of a huge leaves collection that he was collecting from each tree in the forest
Although, from time to time, when he was hungry, he ate those repeated leaves
One day he found out a new and different leave
He likes it too much, that decided to follow its path
The end of the road was a deception ...
a long trip until Antarctica to find a tree without leaves
But he does not despaired: He decided to wait until the first leave rise
He waits for long time facing the strong Antarctic winter
But leaves do not grown on the tree, due to that Guido's "friends" start to laugh on him
“Ha, ha ha, the "naturalist" has a tree without leaves!
Finally, no one leave grown in that tree
Therefore, he decides to back to the Patagonian forest
Where everybody was happy but Guido
Whom was tired and sleepy
While he was sleeping the biggest fire in the Cretaceous starts
The forest is on fire! No one can do anything, just see what was happening
From a minute to other all was gone
Far away from the forest something was safe:
Guido's tree! <size=40>Ta ta!</size>
That gave his friends more sorrow. How could be useful a tree without leaves?
But Guido had an idea: to use all the leaves he collected
And attach them to the tree, so it could be covered with leaves
In that way, with ingenious, he returns the hope to his friends
Thanks to Guido's leaves the Patagonian forest back to born and to have new leaves
Only them who can read the leaves, may find Guido
This story is inspired in the scientific research of a group of paleontologists that have discovered new information about the last time of the Dinosaurs Era, the Upper Cretaceous (more than 66 million years ago). Researchers from the Chilean Antarctic Institute and from the University of Chile, University of Concepcion, Heidelberg University (Germany) and from the Natural History Museums of Chile and from Karlsruhe (Germany) found in 2013 the first remain of dinosaurs in the Chilean Patagonia and Nothofagus leave fossils, the oldest of America. Both are clear evidence of the terrestrial bridge between South America and Antarctica at the end of Dinosaurs Era.
"Guido" is a printed and digital story that looks for produce identity into the people in the Magellan region of Chile and teaches them about its prehistoric past. This is a totally free product and could be downloaded in its pdf version from <color=yellow>www.tipografico.cl/guido</color>
Participants of this story